Okay,
guys,
welcome back.
Now,
in this lecture,
we're gonna have a look at adding a conditional formatting test to all of the ingredients
in each of our subsequent recipes.
So what we're going to do first is fashion the formula that we're gonna then use in our
conditional formatting test.
So what we want to do is have a look to see this value.
Beef appears in our dynamic named a range,
which is this one just here that lives in the ingredients master sheet.
So what we're gonna do is just click over here just to create the formula and we're going
to say equals match open rackets.
Have a look at this cell comma.
Have a looking my list,
which is our dynamic named range comma.
Returned an exact match and close the brackets.
Andi,
enter.
So there we go.
We can no see that we have no match for beef in this list.
So so far,
so good.
And then we'll just track that down on.
We can see that we have errors.
Absolutely.
All the way down now to use a conditional formatting.
What we want to do is return either true or a false value.
So what we're gonna do is modify this formula to return a true value.
And that's very simple to do.
We're just going to click in between the match and the equals on we're just gonna type is
era open brackets Now the match function.
The match formally we've just written is what's going to be evaluated.
So just going to skip straight to the end and close the brackets so that what we're saying
is is this match function a seven in my list Exact match,
an error and if it is returned true.
So there you go.
That's how we get our true value now because that one works perfectly here in the
spreadsheet.
We're just going to copy it his escape.
I'm gonna click on the cell that we want to evaluate,
go to conditional formatting and new rule.
We're going to use a formula to determine which sells to format.
Just gonna click there and in here I'm just going to pace the formula that we've just
written.
Now what I'm gonna do is change the format him by hitting the format,
but I'm gonna choose the fill color as red and then click OK,
and OK,
again they go.
We can see the beef has gone red because the conditional formatting formula evaluated to
truth,
and it does not appear in this list here.
So what we're going to do is just copy that format in a way down There we go.
We can see that none of these items appear in our list.
So what we're gonna do now is copy all of these copy,
flip back to here and just pay special underneath.
So they go.
No,
we have all of Alice in there on our dynamic named range Will have expounded.
Now we've added these items in.
So no.
When we click back to Chilli con Carney,
these cells no evaluate to white cells without conditional formatting.
But these air still read Now that's because thes air blanks on Blank's do not appear in our
ingredients Master list.
So what we're just going to do quickly is modify conditional formatting by adding another
rule.
So what we're gonna do is go back to conditional formatting.
Click New rule user formulated,
determine which sells to format again.
And this time we're going to say equals is blank open brackets now,
because I'm on this cell.
I'm gonna click this cell again.
I'm gonna hit F 43 times,
so it's not an absolute cell reference at all.
So it's a 13 Onda close.
The brackets on the format I would like to set is white.
No,
no color.
I want to apply a new color formatting on.
Then click.
OK,
And then just gonna copy that over all of those.
So they go now,
we've successfully added a conditional format into all of these cells that will instantly
tell us if we add denies him in.
That isn't in our ingredients,
Master.
It will go red,
and we know we have to add it.
So if for argument's sake,
we said we needed to add peas instantly,
we can see by looking at it the peace doesn't appear in our list on.
We need to go and add it to our list over here.
Okay,
I'm just gonna do that for the rest of the sheets and I'll see you in the next lecture